DB:

The user can't connect to the website and see if the server hosting the website is hung up;

If the hosting server is okay, see if the DB is hung up;

If it's okay, is Load Balancer hanging?

If it's okay, check the DB is not the query that can't be completed, block everyone.


Once the Alarm rings, the user reports that the network speed is slow, the response time is too long, you can react quickly, and then find the root cause (program problem or server problem? Server is unbearable or what).


The most important point is to practice your oral English and practice what you want to say. In addition to technical and intellectual content, it must be demonstrated:

(1) Love communication, good at communication, they do not ask you to solve problems, many times it is to feedback the information and situation of domestic users;
(2) Having logic, steps, and quick reporting of what happened;
(3) Strong initiative, not afraid of tired, not afraid of trouble.


You have time to hurry up and repair the server. Just understand the most basic architecture (see the Wikipedia diagram). The details are irrelevant.


http://www.aosabook.org/en/distsys.html
1.2. The Basics


分布式：

1 live on 10 machines and then summed up
1 cache is too big to 10 machines to remember where there is a summary


DB
http://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_join.asp
INNER JOIN = join is to find two tables common items: Returns all rows when there is at least one match in BOTH tables
LEFT JOIN The left table is all right and the other is not null. Return all rows from the left table, and the matched rows from the right table
RIGHT JOIN: Return all rows from the right table, and the matched rows from the left table
FULL JOIN: Return all rows when there is a match in ONE of the tables

How do you know a DB down?

show status;

sudo service mysql status

or

ps to | grep mysql

What you're facing is probably authentication failure or database misspell.

Did you try logging in with same creds via Terminal?

mysql -u <username> -p <database-name>

What shows that a database server is running?
Database servers run as services or daemons, most times in the background without the necessity to see that they are running in order to interact with them. When things go sideways however, being able to verify that the service is in fact up and running can be an excellent place to start troubleshooting. Checking under the services area of your particular operating system, whether that be by GUI or by CLI, can show you that the service is started or not, thus allowing you either to start or restart it as need be.

How to measure the current performance of a DB?

https://blog.appdynamics.com/database/top-6-database-performance-metrics-to-monitor-in-enterprise-applications/
it is good
Business Transactions:response times  standard deviation
Query Performance
User and Query Conflicts
Capacity
Configuration
NoSQL Databases

https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.5/en/optimize-benchmarking.html
8.13.1 Measuring the Speed of Expressions and Functions
8.13.2 The MySQL Benchmark Suite
8.13.3 Using Your Own Benchmarks
8.13.4 Measuring Performance with performance_schema : https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.5/en/performance-schema-status-monitoring.html





You can use Maatkit's query profiler to measure impact of data amount on MySQL performances.

And generatedata.com to generate the data you need to test your app.

You can also test your application responsiveness using HTTP testing tools like :

Apache's bundled 'ab' tool (Apache Bench)
JMeter
Selenium


https://www.pythian.com/blog/do-you-know-if-your-database-slow/

database performance is either the response time of the operations the end-user do and/or  the amount of work the database instance does in a certain time period – throughput.



LInux：

1. Why is LVM required?

LVM means the Logical Volume Manager, which helps us resize the LVM partitions in Linux online based on the size of the file system. We can use the lvextend and lvreduce commands to increase or decrease the size of the LVM partition, respectively.

2. How is the memory and CPU statistics?

We can use the 'free' and 'vmstat' commands to view statistics for physical and virtual memory, respectively. Using the 'sar' command, we can see CPU usage and other information.

3. What does Sar offer? Where is the storage location of the Sar log?

Sar collects, reports, and saves system activity information. The default version of the Sar command (CPU usage report) may be the first user to use when conducting a system activity survey because it monitors most of the system resources. When the CPU utilization approaches 100%, the sampled workload is CPU intensive.

The default log file for the Sar command is located in the /var/log/sa/sadd file, where dd represents the current date.

4. How to increase the size of the LVM partition?

Here are the logical steps:

- Use the lvextend command (lvextend -L +100M/dev/<Name of the LVM Partition>, here we add 100MB to the specified partition)

–resize2fs /dev/<Name of the LVM Partition>

- Check the size of the partition using the 'df -h' command

5. How to reduce the size of the LVM partition?

Here are the logical steps to shrink the size of the LVM partition:

- Unmount the file system using the umount command

- Use the resize2fs command, for example: resiz2fs /dev/mapper/myvg-mylv 10G

- Then use the lvreduce command, for example: lvreduce -L 10G /dev/mapper/myvg-mylv

The above command will reduce the size of the file system by 10GB.

6. How do I create a partition from a raw disk?

With fdisk, we can create partitions from raw disks. Here are the specific steps:

–fdisk /dev/hd* (IDE) or /dev/sd* (SCSI)

- Enter n to create a new partition

- After creating the partition, enter the w command to save the disk partition information.

7. Where is the location of the kernel module?

All kernel modules and compiled drivers in the Linux operating system are stored in the '/lib/modules/kernel-version/' directory. We can also view all installed kernel modules using the 'lsmod' command.

8. What is umask?

Umask means "user file creation mask", which determines a mask to control which files have permissions when files and directories are created.

9. How do I permanently set the umask for the user?

In order to permanently set the umask value for the user, this value must be stored in the appropriate configuration file as determined by the user's default shell.

10. How do I change the default run level in Linux?

In order to change the run level, we have to edit the "/etc/inittab" file and change the default runlevel (id:5:initdefault:). Using the 'init' command, we change the current runlevel. For example: 'init 3', this command will change the running level of the system to the third level.

11. How do I use nfs to share a directory?

To share a directory with nfs, we first edit the '/etc/exportfs' file, add an entry, for example: '/<directory-name> <ip or Network>(Options)', and restart the nfs service.

12. How do I check and mount an nfs share?

Using the 'showmount' command, we can see which directories are shared by nfs, for example: 'showmount -e <ip address of nfs server>'. Using the mount command, we are able to mount nfs shares on Linux.

13. What are the default port numbers used by SMTP, DNS, FTP, DHCP, SSH and Squid?

Service port number

SMTP                25

 DNS                  53

 FTP 20 (data transfer), 21 (connection established)

DHCP 67/UDP (dhcp server), 68/UDP (dhcp client)

SSH                    22

 Squid                  3128

14. What is network binding?

Network bonding is the aggregation of multiple LAN cards to form a single binding interface to provide fault tolerance and high performance. Network binding is also called NIC Teaming.

15. What are the different network binding modes in Linux?

Here are the patterns used in network binding:

Balance-rr or 0 – Loop mode to improve fault tolerance and load balancing.

Active-backup or 1 – Set the active backup mode to improve fault tolerance.

Balance-xor or 2 – Set the XOR mode to improve fault tolerance and load balancing.

Broadcast or 3 – Set the broadcast mode to improve fault tolerance, all information will be copied from all interfaces.

802.3ad or 4 – Set the IEEE 802.3ad dynamic link aggregation mode. Create a focus group that shares the same speed and duplex settings.

Balance-tlb or 5 – Set Transmission Load Balancing (TLB) mode to improve fault tolerance and load balancing

Balance-alb or 6 – Set Active Load Balancing (ALB) mode to improve fault tolerance and load balancing

16. How do I check and verify the status of the bond interface?

Using the 'cat /proc/net/bonding/bond0' command, we were able to check which mode was activated and what LAN card was used. In this example, we only have one bond interface, but we can have multiple bond interfaces, such as bond1, bond2, and so on.

17. How do I check the default route and routing table?

Using the 'netstat -nr' and 'route -n' commands we can see the default route and the routing table.

18. How can I check which ports are listening to my Linux server?

Use the 'netstat -l' and 'lsof -i' commands

19. List the services that are started by the Linux server at a specific run level.

Using the 'chkconfig –list | grep 5:on' command, we can list the services started at run level 5. To view other run levels, just replace 5 with the corresponding level.

20. How do I start a service at a specific run level?

We can use a command like 'chkconfig <Service-Name> on –level 3'.

21. How to upgrade the kernel of Linux?

Instead of upgrading the Linux kernel, we should always use the rpm command to install the new kernel, because upgrading the kernel will leave your Linux machine in an unbootable state.

22. How do I scan for newly allocated luns in Linux without rebooting?

There are two ways to view the newly allocated luns:

Method 1: If the sg3 rpm is installed, run the command 'rescan-scsi-bus.sh'

Method 2: Run the command echo " – – – "> > /sys/class/scsi_host/hostX/scan

23. How do I find the WWN number of the HBA card on the Linux server?

Use the command 'systool -c fc_host -v | grep port_name'

24. How do I add and modify kernel parameters?

To set the kernel parameters in Linux, first edit the '/etc/sysctl.conf' file, save the file after modification, and run the command 'sysctl -p'. This command can be permanently modified without restarting the machine.

25. What is a Puppet server?

Puppet is an open source and enterprise software for configuring and managing tolls such as operating systems in UNIX. Puppet is an automated software that uses code push configuration to his client (puppet proxy). Puppet code can do a variety of tasks, from installing new software to checking file permissions, or updating user accounts and many other tasks.

26. What are the manifests in Puppet?

The mainfests in Puppet are files that specify the client configuration.

27. Which command in the Puppet server is used to sign the requested certificate?

Use 'puppetca –sign hostname-of-agent' in 2.x

Use 'puppet ca sign hostname-of-agent' in 3.x

28. Where does Puppet Master store certificates?

/var/lib/puppet/ssl/ca/signed

29. How do I find all the regular files in the directory?

Use the command 'find /<directory -type f'.

30. What is the average load in Linux?

The average load is defined as the average of the sum of the number of processes waiting in the run queue and the number of currently executing processes in 1 minute, 5 minutes, and 15 minutes. Using the 'top' and 'uptime' commands we can query the average load of a Linux server.







Glassdoor:

1. he interviewer was helpful and asked questions on networking or troubleshooting. A few questions included DNS, DHCP, Hadoop and cloud computing basics.

Explain how DNS works :
The computer checks it's DNS records and does not have it correct one. It then requests the record from the router. The router doesn't know so it goes to the ISP for the DNS record. The ISP doesn't know so it asks the ROOT SERVER for the correct NAME SERVER. Your ISP asks the NAME SERVER for the DNS record. When your ISP has the record it passes it to your router which in turn passes it to you computer. Now you computer has the IP address of the site it wants to visit.

2. If a server failed to do a nightly backup, what could be a reason for that?  

3.The focus was on the projects that I had on resume and lot of basics of networking questions.
Basics of network troubleshooting and a few questions on clustering.  

4.basic networks,Linux commands and operating systems

5.expliain 3 way handshake

6.Basic Networking questions:
What is the difference between Bandwidth, Delay and Latency?
What is MTU, Window Size, Segment (MSS)?
Describe 3-way handshake.
A scenario question about prefix-match and route summarization
A scenario question about Stateful/Stateless firewall.
A scenario question about packet flow in NAT
How DNS work
How DHCP work
What is BGP and describe the states - Idle, Connect, Active, Opensent, Openconfirm, Established.
Tell me a time you went out of your way to do something amazing for a client.


The longest prefix-match always win.

Route summarization works well for block of addresses that are contiguous and it reduces routing table and cpu overhead. Google for details on how to summarize addresses.


Stage2 - AWS Windows Challenge online:

what is Active Directory and why would anyone use it?
importance of time in a Windows domain
what is sysprep, sysvol, BSoD, DHCP, DNS, DFSR, WINS, Global Catalog,
Describe built-in tools to troubleshoot network issues.
Some best security practices and a scenario on a company under DoS attack and you choose best answers or suggest any additional answer.
Finally, A bonus project to build a system that is robust and fault-tolerance for a start-up ecommerce website. .  

You can google AWS videos to see different solutions on Cloud Computing platforms - EC2, EBS, Auto-scaling, Amazon Cloud foundry and so on...


7.

Hypervisor, VmWare, windows troubleshooting (blue screen of death), DNS, DHCP, what happens when we type www.amazon.com, linux commands (basics since I told Im good in windows), what will you do when you type a website and website isn't coming (how do you troubleshoot?), Active directories in Windows Server, how would you handle a customer who complains that all his data has been lost and no when theres no back uptime?, difference between cloud and traditional services, what would you improve in AWS? how would you design your web application on AWS? 

Come here! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
8. 
What happens when you type amazon.com in the browser?
Linux server troubleshooting steps .
What is DNS ?
Explain IPsec briefly.
What are problems you found with AWS
How to deal with an angry customer.
How to handle problems like CPU is 100% occupied or the computer is slow what are the possible problems? 

9. NAT, DNS, EIGRP. He even asked Linux based questions like what commands will you use to find the disk space, how would you use puppet to execute a command, how would you troubleshoot if ssh is not working

What is the difference between range and xrange in python.
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/94935/what-is-the-difference-between-range-and-xrange-functions-in-python-2-x

HTTP codes


10 . 
troubleshooting questions on windows operating systems and one or two behavioral questions

how to troubleshoot a slow computer, past project i am proud about, how to deal with a data loss complain from a client

11.
Everything about networking 

12. 

1. What happens when you type amazon.com in the browser? ( was asked two times by different interviewers)
2. Phone interview was pleasant and the questions were troubleshooting issues
3. Database administration interview was tough for me. though the questions were simple i was not prepared for a DBA questionnaire.

4. Behavioral questions are pretty straight forward and the interviewers would like to know the experience of you in situations like challenging project/task. be prepared to what you have to answer.
5. Dont leave out to revise on the simple points such as common ports, DBA questions etc.
6. What and how the load value is calculated which is displayed when you give the command "uptime"?  


13.

Mostly on my past experience and routing protocol related questions

14.
Linux server troubleshooting steps
What is DNS?
Steps for resolving www.amazon.com
What is DHCP?
Explain IPsec briefly 

15.
Debugging skills on a webpage nor being found.
Linux based rounds where they ask you lot on commands
Basic networking stuff with http, dns in particular. 

16.
how you reach to amazon.com, tell me layer vise. What is DNS? Explain all the steps for DNS. What protocol is used and how it is used to gate out from private network.(ARP)? website is slow how will you troubleshoot ? What is TCP? What is UDP? TCP three way handshake process. Basic l2,l3, some more networking, web servers, windows trouble shooting test, dns server questions.

17.
explain DNS system
regarding CCNA concepts, linux systems, and how to troubleshoot hands-on problems

18.
Mostly troubleshooting skills were tested. Scenarios about a network were given and I was asked to solve it. No correct answers as he only wanted to see how I approach the problem. Some networking questions out of CCNA and CCNP.


DNS, DHCP process, TCP/UDP, entire stack and functions of each layer, Active directory, web servers, linux configurations, object oriented programming concepts.
Some behavioral skills were also tested by giving some situations.

19.
Explain DNS
What is DHCP  

20.
It included questions on DNS, Unix troubleshooting, CCNA concepts 

 routing protocols and their differences, DNS, RAID levels, Active directory and basic Linux commands.

The most difficult question I felt was " What if you have two customers with same problem at the same time, whom you will give the priority and why" 

The best answer to this is...I will follow the SLAs (Service Level Agreements) and find out which client will have to be paid more compensation in case the issue isnt solved in time.
That client will be given clear priority.


21.
What are problems you found with AWS?  

22.
Can you explain the DNS system?  

The DNS or Domain Name System is a is a hierarchical distributed naming system for computers, services, or any resource connected to the Internet or a private network. It associates various information with domain names assigned to each of the participating entities. Most prominently, it translates easily memorized domain names to the numerical IP addresses needed for the purpose of locating computer services and devices worldwide. The Domain Name System is an essential component of the functionality of the Internet

23.

 basic linux system administration questions. Difference between Raid2 or RAID5, mdadm. Raid and logical volume.


How to deal with an angry customer 


I write it here but never in person. As we all know and that goes for the interviewer too, our first response would be to say to an angry person is to hit the road! Beat it! But for the big A you need to say you would be calm and understanding and remain that way throughout until their anger has been vented. Only if my safety seemed eminent would I call for security etc

24.

Windows, Linux and network troubleshooting, internet basics-blues screen, slow network, http error codes

straightforward-on topics like internet, networking, IP subnets, Windows and Linux troubleshooting, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, cloud architecture, RAID, scripting (find matching rows in two docs) etc.. Most of them are open ended questions like "Tell me everything you know about DNS?"

Lost of behavioral questions on Disagreeing with team , Difficult situations, Situation when you went beyond and above your job description, Amazon leadership principles etc..

Have trained any of you fellow students or coworkers any time?  

What is most difficult course you have taken so far? How did you managed with it? 


!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
25.

What is nslookup?
What is fstab? 

26.

Networking, second was Operating Systems (Windows or Linux, I picked Windows) and the final was a "general" interview focusing on competency, previous experience, Amazon leadership principles and a troubleshooting scenario.

Questions ranged from knowledge/understanding to support questions whereby you are given a scenario and are tasked with troubleshooting. They didn't expect you to know everything, they try to find out how much you know, gauge your understanding and communication skills.


When you type a URL into your web browser, what happens when you press enter?  

A client in Germany is trying to access a server in London, but his connection is running slow. You are in Dublin. How do you diagnose his issue?  

What happens when you press the power button on your PC?  


"I have forgotten my password, how will you help me?"  

How do you find out what your IP Address is?  



27. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Three 30 mins interviews, the first ask about networking, the second is about windows troubleshooting, the third is about leadership which you should answer the questions with your own experience.
the networking part question:
what is the difference about UDP and TCP, what kind of application base on UDP
what is FTP? what kind of application it used for?
what the different between HTTP and HTTPS? and why HTTPs more secure?
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
something related with IP address
I find the questions always go to the details, and ask why it is and try to test your understanding and your passion in technology.
I did not do well in the trouble shooting, because i did not prepare it at all

for the leadership part, the questions are like: give me an example about how did you deal with multiple tasks, how did you handle deadline, how did you deal with angry clients....

28.
1 DHCN 2 DNS. 3 linux server configuration 4. RAID levels and detail descritpion 

Interview Questions
1. common ports 2. active directory 3. IPsec 4. DHCP 5. DNS  

29.
 At the beginning they asked me whether I prefer windows or linux. After choose linux all questions were about troubleshooting, linux commands and network knowledge.

HTTP codes 404, 403, 200  

How DNS work  

How DHCP work  

Network troubleshooting commands

30.
1. Difference between DNS and IP? 2. Private IP vs Public IP? 3. Cloud v Vitualization 4. How to handle problems like CPU is 100% occupied or the computer is slow what are the possible problems? 

31.
asked me about which os platform I familiar with. then he asked lot of questions about using complier line. all entry level. the network knowledge 

what is difference between TCP and UDP. give a application example for each.  


32.

What happens when you type an address into a browser and press enter  

The Browser (Firefox, Chrome, Safari, Internet Explorer) checks the cache to see if it already exists, if not it asks the OS for the servers IP address, Then the OS does a DNS lookup after which it replies the IP address to the browser, The browser then opens a TCP connection and sends the HTTP request, the browser receives the HTTP response and may close the TCP connection depending if it decides to use it for another request. If its cacheable, response is stored and the browser decodes the response and renders HTTP response


33.
How do you troubleshoot network issues?  


34.
If a customer didn't do their back-ups as they were advised and now they've lost all their data, what do you do? 

35.
Customer can't ssh into their machine, what do you do?  

Tell me about a time you've experienced failure and how you learned from that  

36.
Systems and network troubleshooting questions. 
Linux, Windows, Networking, DevOps, SDKs, etc.

37.
mine were mostly about Linux, and how to troubleshoot different problems 

38.
Technical support questions regarding networking/switching, and a strong emphasis on Linux server management/CMD Line (Bash) questions, shell scripting as well

39. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
IPSEC tunnel/transport mode , main/aggressive mode , BGP MED/LP ,BGP OPEN msg, Website design from network prospective, OSPF neighbor states , port security, linux file system, STP basics 

40.
 FSMO roles in Active Directory, what are the aspects of setting up a VPN connection between two sites, what all happens when www.amazon.com is typed into a browser, and some basic firewall questions.

On-site, I met with a couple engineers, and several managers. These were a mix of technical questions (describe how you'd set up a network with three locations, what is a GPO and how is it applied in AD, etc) and soft questions (Tell me about a time when doing things the normal way didn't work, Tell me about a time you came up against a problem you'd never seen before, etc).

Interview Questions
If you were interviewing you, what are the three questions you would be asking?  

41.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
because of non disclosure agreement, I won't be able to say the question but just make sure you focus on neworking (as they will go deep om this), DNS, TCP/IP, FiREWALL, LOAD BALANCER etc. And most importantly please, please and please read and understand amazon leadership principle. If you really wanna work at amazon, you will need not only to understand the principles but been able to relate to it and come up with a scenario when you applied the principle.

42.

networking
data base
windows
linux


43.

Linux commands, debugging techniques, behavioral questions  

44.

 troubleshooting, DNS, TCP, UDP

Troubleshooting windows and Internet, cloud computing, AWS troubleshooting and so on.

VPN, virtualization
Difference between ospf and BGP

45.！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！

Tell me about a time when a client was not happy, what happened, and how did you handle that?

46.

What is the most challenging technical hurdle you have overcome in your career? Tell me about your biggest professional mistake? Outside the workplace, how do you sharpen your skill set?

What is AD and why use it
Why is time important in windows domain
What is sysprep
Global catalog
Built in tools to troubleshoot network issues
Best security practices for windows servers
User not authorized to rdp error
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Why shouldn’t you reboot during windows updates
What does site binding refer to
How can you list network routes in windows
What shared folder exists on domain controllers and is used to store login scripts
When to implement login script
What does ipconfig result 169.254.2.10
Impact on server system resources
What do you do when your website has been hacked  


47.
！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！！
What happens when I type Google into browser,
How does http get request know which domain to go to if a web server is hosting multiple sites,
Can 192.168.1.33/24 talk to 10.0.2.34/24 on the same switch,
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
What is fstab,
What to do if I couldn't open open a file because it only had rw permissions,
What would be the easiest way to automate a process,
What to do if a website was timing out,
How to know if a service is running on your computer
Customer service related questions
On rhel how to install packages  

48.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
technical round- Encryption. hashing, compromised system, Linux commands, event viewer logs.

49.
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
TCP/IP window size and packet header. Must know Linux scripting, Active directory, LDAP, 'grep' command.  

networking: DNS, BGP, IP, HTTP and other. Questions were not tricky, and if you have general good knowledge of the protocols, 
Questions around networking protocols  

50.
networking questions (CCNA level). 
Explain all the steps for DNS  

51.
What are OSPF neighbor states
52.
WAN links

53.
I can't give specific questions, but I can say to make sure you study Amazon's leadership principles and have stories ready for each

54.

- What is HTTP error 400 (Bad request)
- Explain TCP congestion control and how it works (average round trip timer retries)
- Explain everything in detail that happens when you type www.amazon.com into your browser (you will have to explain everything that happens in all the OSI layers, DHCP, DNS, routing protocols, HTTP ports and commands, TCP, load balancing, reverse proxies, CSS, databases, etc)
- An FTP download starts slow and then speeds up towards the end. Why is that?
- If you were to set up amazon.com from scratch, what would you do? (essentially describe everything involved in filling a datacentre with networking, hardware, software, storage, and getting it seen on the internet)
- What does a router do if the MTU is too small for the packet (packet fragmentation, but you can talk about MSS and PMTUD)
- What kind of DNS record that tells the name server to find it's own domain by looking at it's own records to avoid a recursive loop? (A DNS glue record)
- Describe the Phases of IPSEC (IKE phase 1 - establish security association policies and Diffie helman key exchange, IKE phase 2 - establish the security association and regularly retest it)
- How can a filesystem say it has free space but you are unable to write anything into it (out of inodes)
- What happens when a router receives a packet? (describe routing, forwarding, and encapsulation processes)
- What are the differences between OSPF and BGP? (OSPF is link-state used internally in sites, BGP is path vector - and connects sites via AS numbers to the public internet) 

55.1) When you type amazon.com in your browser what happens?
2) What are the types of routing protocols that we have?
3) What happens when you connect your PC to the network?
4) What is DNS loadbalancing and how does it work?  

56.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
What is file descriptor?
Command to check used memory by all running tasks
Command to check all processes running.
Command to check stopped/off processes

What is data locality?
What happens in Shuffling at MapReduce phase?
Say my replication factor is 3, and cluster of 10 nodes, one node fails, what happens to the file I have copied.
Say my replication factor is 3, I changed it to 2, what happens to the files then.
Suppose developer sends me a code to run, mapping phase completes at 100 percent, and reducing phase is stuck at 20% for 2 hours and then it completes, what can be the reason for it. How will you troubleshoot it?
What is the difference between MapReduce 1 and 2?
What is speculative execution?
What is Garbage Collector? Is it good to use it?
Explain what happens in linux between the process of switching power-on till the login screen. (boot process)  

57.

Questions were about DNS on Windows OS and in general, Windows' registry, differences between domains and workgroups, linux os that i know, what kernel is, etc folder, boot folder, linux network troubleshooting, processes troubleshooting, differences between udp and tcp protocols, tcp handshake

58.
Design a scalable and highly available website. They would ask you to add more complexity layers as your design goes on.  

59.1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
What is the difference between windows domain and workgroup ?  

What is active directory ?  

FSMO roles ? What are they used for ? If you know some of their names you can list some of them ?  

Where exactly are these roles located in the server ? He probably meant in what directory and file.  

What is the tool used for editing these roles ? For example if you want to make some changes to this roles ?
I tried to explain where the tool if found. But he insisted and wanted a name for the tool, I did not remember it really so I passed this one also.


60. 
What is the difference between UDP and TCP/IP?  
Both work on transport layer.
TCP is connection-oriented protocol, the package will be sent and a answer is expected, on UDP there is no answer, the protocol doesn't know if the package arrived.
TCP send packages on the sent order, UDP doesn't have any order.
TCP examples: www, mail, ftp and ssh.
UDP examples: DNS, VoiP

61.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Basic Windows questions like DNS, Active Directory, Group Policy, workgroups, Kerberos, NTLM and so on. Then we switched to network, IP address structure, 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
NAT, TCP headers 3-way handshake and the like,expect very basic things in very deep detail.  

62.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Windows interview was nasty for me, was a bit strange and caught me unprepared. Some very hard questions (FSMO scenarios, client troubleshooting) and some of the general IT questions, apparently easy (what's the difference between WinSrv2003 and WinSrv2008, describe the process of windows boot). Even if you have a huge experience, you might get in trouble.
   Network interview was a lot more easier than I expected. Some decent, basic questions, scaling with the rate of correct answers given (I said stop when I reached OSPF configuration :)).

Describe the process of booting Windows.
What is the difference between WinSrv2003 and WinSrv2008 ?
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
How would you configure you DHCP to have one subnet load balanced ?
What happens if RID Master is down ?
How can you troubleshoot a slow working/defective client ?
How can you access the GC from another DC ?
What process is responsible for windows log on ?

Network:
What happens when you type www.amazon.com in your browser?
TCP 3 way handshake.What is the first TCP package sent?  



63.

What is DHCP, BGP, ARP, VPN, IPSEC and DNS. Describe what happen in browser when you hit www.amazon.com, describe what happen when you run trace. differences between UDP and TCP,

, many TCP/IP questions about ports, three way handshake, flags, fields in the protocol; HTTP. General questions about networking - mostly LAN related; NAT; ACL; brief explanation of routing protocol. Windows - FSMO roles, DHCP, DNS zones and records, sysvol, GC, etc.. T

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
sysvol
64.
First Interview: What happens in the browser when you type Amazon.com?, How do you scale a PHP application?, Tell me about a time when you did more than was needed by a client?, How do you host two websites using the same IP?, 
How do you check the states of slow running queries in databases and ho do you optimize them ?, 
How would you migrate an application from Google Cloud Datastore to Amazon S3?(I would say this was specific to me because I had earlier stated that I had experience with the Google Cloud Platform), 
What is the difference between absolute and relative URLs and what are the advantages/disadvantages of each?, 
What is the deafault MySQL port?  

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Second Interview (was OS focused): Can you explain the Linux boot process?, How do you install a package in Ubuntu? 
What does apt-get update do? 
What does apt-get upgrade do? 
What ports are used for SSH, SSL and what is the default MySQL port?(repetition from first interview), 
How do you make a user the owner of a file in Linux? 
How do you change permissions? 
What is the meaning of the various codes used in assigning permissions in chmod and what does each position signify?, 
How do you connect a new disk partition and mount it in Linux?, 
What is iptables? 
What is an inode?  

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

66.
Question on VLAN and how to build secure windows server clearly more infrastructure related questions than application which i find it bit out of the way than my role.  

67.

Tcp/ip, Osi, AD, DNS, basic troubleshoot on Network and Windows. Lots of detail on each item like FSMO and TCP vs UDP and what happen when you type UrL on your browser.  


69.
TCP/UDP, basic l2 l3, some web server, ssl authentication, windows trouble shooting test, dns server, dhcp server


71.
What is sysprep and how is it used?  

72.

how to subnet, active directory protocols, Linux commands, Cisco commands, how to move a file from a Windows computer to a Linux computer etc. Lots of textbook questions
Show Less

Interview Questions
1. What is RAID? What is striping?
2. Explain Layer 2 and Layer 3
3. What is MFT in relation to NTFS? What is the difference between NTFS and FAT?
4. Explain static and dynamic routing  

73.
base etc. He was easy to talk to, very polite and didn't rush.
Asked if I had any experience in AWS, and moved on to windows server (DNS, Event Viewer, FSMO, Group Policy), cloud computing basics, database (back up types), TCP/IP (TCP vs UDP, 3 way handshake, storage, virtualization, Routing protocol

74.

1. What is a gateway?
2. What does http code 200 mean?
3. What does http code 404 mean?
4. What is DNS? Name a few record types and their usage.
5. What is the windows registry?
6. What is sysprep and what do you used it for?
7. What is a page file?
8. What is sysvol?
9. What is a global catalog?
10. What does the lmhosts file contain?

11. What is a schema master?
12. What is a infrastructure master?
13. What command do you use to add a static route in Windows?
14. A client has a problem with his computer and he tells you that his IP is 169.254.100.50. Diagnose the issue
15. What types of logs can be found in Windows?
16. What is inode?
17. What is a hard link? What is a soft link?
18. If i were to type in this command "ifconfig /a" i would see "eth0:0". Tell me something about "eth0:0".
19. What is processor id 1?
20. What is NAT and what do you use it for?

21. What are the main differences between tcp and udp protocols?
22. Name a few command line tools.
23. What is a tcp sequence?
24. What is a VPN and how does it work (network wise)?
25. What are the TCP Flags?

q1. would there training opportunities for Amazon technologies?
a1. in the beggining there will be a general training, and after that depending on your choices there are specialization trainings.

q2. what about other technologies available (OSCP, CSSIP, ITIL, etc.)?
a2. Ususally if a project need someone certified in other technologies, you have a chance. Amazon does not provide oportunities unless it needs to.

q3. will I have on-call duty? what does it looks like now? what's the time off in-lieu policy (TOIL) is for all-night and full weekend shifts?
a3. depends on the team, but for the cloud support engineers there is not over time, just normal work hours 9am-6pm


75.

What is default gateway and what is used?
Difference between TCP and UDP?
Describe TCP Handshake?
What is MPU?
What is Packet Handling?
What is NAT?
What is ACL? 

76.

Linux, Networking, and protocols - http, DNS, SSL.
Basic knowledge about services and ports they are using (MySQL, DNS, FTP, SSH).

First part of the second interview was about soft skills and in depth questions about Linux, HTTP, SSL.
Second part was about soft skills and Networking, various detail questions about TCP and UDP, network segmenting, routing, DHCP.
Show Less

Interview Questions
Describe in detail how HTTP works?


77.
 For example, how does DHCP work? answer to this is not a client requesting an IP and a server responding with one. Answer should be detailed on what ports are used, when it is a broadcast request, etc.

78.
* difference between ext2, ext3
* how to find out if web server listens on the port? - browser?, cURL?, telnet?
* port DNS - 53
* port POP3 - 110
* port HTTP - 80
* what is UDP timeout value
* 255.255.255.240 is /28
* what is DNS - domain name system
* what is reverse DNS good for?
* in Linux, you have plenty of space, but still cannot write on the drive, what could be the issue? - ran out of inodes
* what is mysql dump
* what is orphaned record in mysql - it no longer has a corresponding "parent" record
* what is NULL in MySQL glossary
* HTTP error 404 - not found
* HTTP error 400 - bad request
* How many VPN tunnels can you have without NAT
* DNS AAAA - ipv6
* classes of private IP addresses
* what does it mean if you have IP address of 169.XXXX - DHCP not working
* Interior/exterior gateway routing protocols
* ISS multiple web servers
* what is GPO - group policy object
* primary key in MySQL - database glossary question
* what is /var folder usually for?
* what is /opt folder usually for?
* what is /bin folder usually for?
* 2 questions about Active Directory Service Interfaces Editor (ADSI Edit)
* essay "what is cloud computing?"
* essay "what exactly happens when you type www.amazon.com into the browser?"

Phone interview (with clearly Windows guy):
-----------------------------------------------------
    Explain what is the role you're applying about and how you understand it?
    Explain what the cloud is?
    Have you used any AWS services in the past? Did you hit any challenges along the way setting up those services?
    Something that you are pationate to learn more of AWS?
    Explain in simple terms what is virtualization
    How does the hypervisor work?
    Types of hypervisors?
    How does the "Live motion" in VMware work? Is there hardware component that must be shared across both clusters to make that work.
    What TCP/IP is?
    What a subnet mask is used for? How it works? What it's made up of?
    In class C space, how many host can you have in that space? Is there a special IP address that cannot be used?
    Any differences between TCP and UDP?
    Tell me about different DNS record types.
    Is it possible to overwrite the DNS record at the PC?
    What's an lmhosts file used for?
    What are different RAID levels you can use? And which one would you use for specific situation? What abour RAID5?
    Windows PC has an IP address 169.254.X.X. What does it typically mean and whit the cause? How would you troubleshoot it? What would you look for on the DHCP server? Is there any log you can look at?
    Windows Blue Screen of Death, what are the troubleshooting steps there?
    How to log in to a PC that might be bluescreening?
    When you press F8, there is an option "Last known good configuration" can you explain exactly what that is?
    There is a customer who used to be able to connect to a Windows server on the internet over remote desktop, they now report they are unable to do so.
    Can you explain what DCOM is and why it may not sometimes work?
    How would you start a windows service for remote machine over the network.

Soft-skills questions:
-------------------------
    Customer reporting they've lost some business critical data. What would you be doing. You discover there was no backup and it is impossible to recover it. What would you be doing then?
    Are you able to tell me about specific time where you coached or mentored somebody in the past? Was it a formal training or informal training when you trained someone?
    Can you give me an example how you specifically learned rapidly in the past and how do you learn new technologies?
Show Less

Interview Questions
Definition of TCP/IP

79.

NDA

80.

Linux tools, filesystem, kernel and system administration/troubleshooting, while during the second I have been asked network related questions about TCP/IP stack, HTTP, routing and troubleshooting.

IT network infrastructure. DNS, OSPF, IPSEC

81.
If the enable password of a Cisco device is lost, how to recover.
About Linux, soft vs hard links, importance of filesystem journalling. Given a text file with mix phone numbers with and without country codes, format it to include a default country code if it is missing.
Describe in depth an experience handling a difficult cutomer

82.
Linux file system is not full,is mounted rw and has no errors, permissions are good, but can't write, what is the issue?  

I did not remember the answer, as the typical cases are mostly described.
After little conversation with interviewer, got to inodes exhaustion